Food and drinks expense tip number one:
bottle and bring your own water.
You will save a fortune in the long run.
As we discussed, buying water actually costs more than
buying gasoline in many countries.
It's also better for the environment, of course.
And actually, here in the city of San Francisco,
they recently banned the sale of bottled water
on city property.
And I know that sounds out there,
but I think this will be the norm in many places,
just like you can't smoke in bars or in restaurants now
in many countries, thank God.
Separately, places like McDonald's make a fortune
off of selling us drinks.
In fact, those places only make money on drinks
and a small amount on fries,
which is why, at McDonald's, they always ask us,
"Do you want a Coke with that?
"Do you want fries with that?"
And so, food is a loss leader for many restaurants,
and drinks are where the massive profit margins
and markups are made,
and it's ridiculous that we spend
so much money on drinks when we go out.
We can just have them at home for much, much cheaper.
I don't know why people do that,
why they buy drinks at expensive restaurants,
or any restaurants, for that matter.
And even my kids, whenever we go to a fast food restaurant,
we'll go to Walgreens, which is the drug store here,
and we'll buy some drinks first.
You know, it all adds up.
Expense tip number two: bring your own grocery bags tip.
So, if you bring your own grocery bags,
you'll save money in the long run,
because they actually charge us,
at least where I live here, for bags.
And back in Canada, they charge as well.
And it's also better for the environment too,
'cause we're all in this together.
Tip number three: buy a coffee machine.
So, buy a coffee machine instead of
buying from a Starbucks or other coffee shops.
And please revisit the first example in the course,
the first exercise as well,
on how you can save literally
hundreds of thousands of dollars,
and maybe over a million dollars in your lifetime
by making your own coffee
or your own tea at home.
It all adds up.
Expense tip number four: don't boil using the stove tip.
This one's out there again.
But what I recommend is boil water using a microwave,
if you have one, instead of the stove,
as it's a lot faster and it's actually cheaper
to heat stuff in the microwave, even water.
Also, if your kids, I shouldn't go there, but I will,
if your kids love those Cup of Noodles items,
have them use your Keurig or coffee machine to
pour in the hot water, as it can heat the water faster.
It's cheaper and safer too.
No MSG in that stuff.
Okay, expense tip number five:
eat what you have first tip.
Eat what you already have in the freezer or pantry
instead of buying more stuff.
We all waste so much money by letting stuff
pile up in the pantry, or in the freezer,
or perishables that go bad in the fridge.
And I know it sounds kinda silly,
but we all let so much stuff expire and waste
when we can just give it to the poor instead.
And there's actually a pretty cool website called
MyFridgeFood.com, which tells you
what to make based on what you already have
in your fridge or in your pantry.
Expense tip number six: freeze it tip.
Freeze leftovers, and bread,
and consume it later if you prefer.
And when I buy bread, Christine, my wife,
she always puts it in the freezer
and we toast bread frozen.
It works for us, and you save
a lot of money in the long run
this way as well.
Food and drinks expense tip number seven:
grocery shopping tip.
Don't shop for groceries more than one time per week.
You can save the three dollars,
or whatever it might be, in gasoline.
And if you have an ODB port on your car,
which I'm sure you do, as all cars
since 1996 have them,
you can actually put in a product
from a company called Automatic.com
that will tell you how much money you're spending
in travel fees as well.
And the pricing point for the ODB port add-ins
from Automatic.com and other companies
is getting a lot cheaper as well.
We covered that earlier.
Expense tip number eight: grow it yourself tip.
Grow your own food and do your own landscaping.
It's healthy, it's fun to do, and it's relaxing, man.
It's like yoga.
Make a garden.
And avoid using anything from Monsanto, any seeds.
A little off topic, but it's not good for you.
Grow your own food, as it is organic,
and it's cheaper, and therapeutic too.
Just try it out.
And tell the kids about it as well,
'cause it's a great way to save money and eat healthier
while bonding with the family.
And my dad, when he got back from the hospital
after his heart attack, he went right into the backyard
and started gardening.
It's so peaceful and relaxing,
and you can save on healthcare bills
in the long run as well.
Tip number nine: make and pack
all of your meals tip.
Make your own lunch, your own breakfast.
Yes, you do have the time.
I promise you, you do.
Sunday afternoons, for many years,
I now make seven of these things, right?
It's got everything I need in it,
antioxidants, kale, ginger, aloe water,
whey protein, that sorta thing.
And so, I make them in my blender,
and it's basically a greatest hits
of everything I need to hopefully make it
till 150 years old.
And I'm currently 21, as you can tell.
Just kidding about living to 150 years.
Also, I pack five lunches, which saves me a fortune,
and it doesn't really take that much time,
as I prepare everything at once
and put everything in the fridge.
And if you prepare everything at once for the whole week,
it's a lot faster than doing it every single day, right?
It's like the Ford plant, it's a production line.
This not only keeps you healthier,
which is the best investment you'll ever make,
but it actually saves you a lot of time
because you don't have to leave your desk,
and of course, you save a lot of money.
Tip number 10: only shop from a grocery list tip.
Make your grocery list, and do not buy
anything not on that list.
And never shop when you're hungry either.
And use those coupons, and use a free online app,
like this one here that I've been using
for several years now with Christine, my wife,
called OurGroceries.
And it's free, it's awesome because
it actually makes creating a shared grocery list
really, really easy to do,
and it remembers what you bought in the past,
so you can just add more items to it.
And anyways, it's a lot faster.
Tip number 11: order appetizers or kid's meals tip.
So, I like to order two appetizers
and skip the main course, or share dishes,
or be a vegetarian, as it's cheaper and healthier.
And main courses, I think, are a ripoff,
as you end up paying for side orders of stuff
that you didn't even order to begin with.
And my wife Christine and I,
we used to order kid's meals for ourselves
at some fast food restaurants like Chipotle,
which is a great Mexican restaurant,
as it was just much cheaper,
and there was a lot of food
in the kids' orders anyway.
And it all adds up, and sometimes, I won't order
when I take the kids out,
as a lot of times, they won't finish their meals,
especially my youngest one, Dylan.
Food expense tip number 12: receipt tip.
Please, read the receipt closely,
especially when you go out to dinner,
as I find at least one in 10 times when we go out,
that we are overcharged for something.
Food and drinks expense tip number 13: unhealthy habit tip.
If you have a bad habit like smoking
or drinking too much, then please open up
exercise number one in the course
and look at the first exercise on coffee expenses.
And type into that exercise number one
how much you spend daily on that bad habit,
and look how much money you're gonna save in the long run
if you kick that habit.
And for those of us with substance abuse issues,
and people really close to my family have had issues,
it's actually easier to stop a habit 100% of the time
than 98% of the time,
and I think you know what I mean.
The same thing can be said
when it comes to our mentality of saving.
We need to be in this saving zone
100% of the time, and not 98% of the time because
that 2% binge spending, or impulse shopping,
or spending mistake by us can cost us
thousands or millions of dollars
in lost savings in the long run.